So if you go back to the repository here,
and
just scroll down until you see the tone
JS you can see the website for
tone JS and the API documentation.
So tone JS is a free library,
it's open source and
once it's sort of set up and installed.
Whether you install it with MPN and
no GES or
whether you just put it in a script tag
which is what we are gonna to be doing.
Once it's all set up, you have this global
access to a variable called tone and
that's the API for tone JS.
And you can use tone to create sounds.
So for example,
this here just creates a new synth and
then function to destination.
What that does,
is very similar to what I was talking
about with connecting wires and web audio.
This connects the synth to
the audio context destination.
So it's just a sort of handy function for
us to not have to always type synth dot
connect audio context dot destination.
This is just a simpler function.
And then once the synth is created,
you can trigger an attack release so
C4 that's the the note
that you wanna play.
And that's depending on
the frequency you can use different
notes here like D or
something else half A whatever.
And then here is the length
the duration of the note,
and this is they have their
own sort of syntax for this.
It could be in seconds if you pass
a number or in some sort of time unit,
but you can also pass this note very
variable sort of unit 4n or 8n.
Which is the let's say eighth of
a note in terms of music timing and
things like that.
And when they say trigger attack release,
the idea of attack is that you're turning
the note on and the idea of release
is that you're turning the node off.
So this is both of those things
the note gets turned on and
then right away after some set duration,
the node gets turned off.
Whereas when we talk about trigger attack,
and
trigger release separately,
you might wanna just turn the note on.
Leave it on for however long you want it
to be on for, just producing sound and
then at some point trigger that release.
And that's what they're doing in this demo
here where they start with a C4 note,
and they trigger it immediately.
And then after some time duration like
a second, they trigger the release.
[SOUND] And so when we use
tone synth it just starts by creating
a sort of basic synthesiser for us.
What we were hearing earlier,
what I was showing you earlier
in terms of that these demos
this one here at the top.
This is like a synthesis
using a sine wave.
But there are different ways of
of changing these scents and
using different scents within the tone JS
library to get different types of sounds.
Maybe sounds this sounds more
like a guitar or like a piano or
more like an electronic sort of bass, or
maybe more like a lead, different keys,
things like that.
And that's really a matter of just
started diving into their documentation,
figuring out the different since they have
and figuring out some of the different
options which we're going to
be doing a little bit of.
Another reference point is just the API
Doc's themselves just to make sure that
you have that sort of
open maybe in a new tab.
Because there's lots of new things
all sort of being going through here.
So if you go into the repo and if you've
been following along with the repo this
whole time you might
need to just get pulled.
Just to make sure that you are up to
date in case there is anything that's
changed in the last little bit.
And just you can see that there's
some demos here specifically for
tone JS, so
these are the tone JS demos and
the way that they work is
that in the HTML document.
I've added an additional script tag and
it's using this script tag here.
And I'm using an CDN called unpackage or
unpkg and
that's pulling tonejs directly from NPM.
And it's pulling it as this sort of built
file that we can just then drop into
a script tag just like this.
And once we do this,
then we can access tone JS and JavaScript.
So I'm gonna just close these and
I'm gonna just start with the little sine
wave demo I was showing you earlier.
So I'm gonna pull this one up, [SOUND] and
in this demo,
you can see it's just a regular
P5 setup function here
to create our canvas.
Maybe clear it with a black color,
some background color.
And then here we're using
tone JS a little bit here.
So the first thing we're doing is we're
setting the volume because these pure
synths are sometimes a little bit loud.
And it's just producing this
like really loud signal.
So I'm using a volume that's negative
15,you can change that if you want, lower,
higher, whatever.
And I'm just setting the master volume
of tone to this variable there,
and then I'm creating a synth and
that looks like this.
And the options of a synth give us the
ability to change the type of wave that is
being produced.
So the type of oscillator, so if we just
check this again, we'll see that it's like
a sine wave and that's kind of what
we've been dealing with this whole time.
But there's different types
of waves that we can use.
So sine waves are the one that
produced that kind of noise that we
have been hearing when
we're clicking that.
It's this kind of constant high
pitch whining noise, but we can
also use different waves like square waves
or triangle waves or sawtooth waves.
Or even others,
that will sound a little bit different.
So here's this square oscillator, [SOUND]
the background is still looking like
a sine wave and that's cuz I'm just
drawing a very simple sort of sine wave.
Just to visualize the the idea of it, so
just ignore the background wave for now.
[SOUND] And
square waves are really good if
you're taking the low
end of the square wave.
And then adding some effects on
top distortions or reverbs or
echoes or things like that.
Because you can start to create these
really powerful sounding electronic leads
for like a really like epic
sounding electronic track.
[SOUND]
[SOUND] Triangle sounds a little bit
different [SOUND].
And they all just sound a little bit
different in slightly different ways
[SOUND] [SOUND] So
sawtooth also sounds quite harsh
almost like chiptune music.
And one thing you'll notice with all these
synthesizers that I've been exploring so
far is that they all
sound very very piercing.
They don't sound like
these nice soft tones and
the way we're gonna get those
kind of tones is through effects.
Through layering these different scents
cuz you can build up a single synth
that's layered from multiple different
oscillators, different tunings and
different parameters.
And it starts to create this kind of
softer sound that maybe is closer to
a piano or
maybe it's closer to a guitar pluck or
even something that's like more
electronic pads or something like that.
But just for
the sake of example we're probably gonna
stick with some simple since here.
And later I'll show some resources on how
to build up those much more complex and
much richer sounds.
If you're really interested in taking this
a step further and going towards more like
electronic music rather than just
experimentation with the these API's.
And seeing what you can do, but if you
really want to do performance, you're not
gonna want to just use a straight up
sine wave synth or anything like that.
And so that the synth there and
then the next aspect is disconnecting
the synth to the master.
This is very similar to what
we're doing with Web Audio,
the pure Web Audio where we just
connect one node to another.
Except in this case, Tone.Master
represents the audio context destination.
And then if we scroll down, there's only
one other thing that's audio related here,
the rest is just drawing some
sort of graphics of some kind.
And the audio related thing here
is figuring out a frequency,
which is in hertz here.
Some frequency between let's say 75 and
2500 hertz.
And then changing the note of the synth so
changing the synth
frequency output to whatever it
is based on the mouse position.
And that's what's allowing
us to change the pitch or
change the frequency of that note and
of that synth.
So that's the basic demo there.
[SOUND] The next demo here
is also fairly simple,
nothing too different than the last.
The only thing now is that we're using
the trigger attack release function that
I mentioned briefly before.
And we're taking a scale,
this is just like a few notes from
the here j Joshi scale and C and
we're using these notes directly in
the the most pressed function so
that every time we push we're
getting a different note.
We're also getting different octaves and
the octaves represent how high or
low pitch those notes are.
Basically taking it as several notes up or
several notes down in terms of frequency
[MUSIC]
And from this you can start to
create these almost algorithmic and
procedural soundtracks.
So just to show an example of how
kind of powerful this technique is,
a while back I created
a very small web game.
And it was a 13 kilobyte
game that was designed for
a game competition
called Gs 13 cake games.
Where all the game contents everything has
to fit within 13 kilobytes after it's all
minified and compressed.
And so this whole game is
using procedural graphics and
it's using procedural
audio with web Web Audio.
And the technique is very similar so
the idea of the game is that you're a kite
flying around and
hitting these little flowers.
And I'll play the audio in a second but
the technique is very similar every time
you hit one of these flowers,
it's playing a different random note.
And these random notes
are within a sort of set scale.
And then there's just some parameters
on top of that depending on the Okta or
depending on you know which is
the scale you're working with.
And things like that to create
these different ambient soundtracks
[MUSIC]
And it's quite relaxing just
to hear these random notes
[MUSIC]
So that's Bellwoods.
So that's just to show that even though
it's a simple technique there's a lot that
can be done with them.
>> Somebody in chat says similar to flower
by that game, same company, so nice.
>> Thanks, yeah it's very inspired
by flower and those kind of,
I mean also journey and things like that
very inspiring games really wonderful.